# Macroeconomics_III

1. Econometric policy evaluation a critique: this paper by Lucas discusses  the points a model needs to have to be able to do policy evaluations. The whole point is that econometric models depend on parameters that are endogenously determined by optimal decisions of agents, so when you change the policy you change those parameters or even the structure of your econometric specification, that is why you need a model with (i) rational decisions, (ii) intertemporal decisions regarding savings and investments, (iii) aggregate shocks to generate the upswings and downswings in the economy, and (iv) a general equilibrium model where prices are determined endogenously.

2. The use of structural models in econometrics: this is an easy-to-read paper published in the Journal of Economic Perspectives by Hamish Low and Costas Meghir where they discuss that by using the structural model in econometrics, you can go beyond the conclusions of your empirical estimation. They go through the definition of a structural model and then discuss all those issues. It is just discussion, super interesting by the way. Just a way to balance Lucas's view (or complement) about the use of econometric specifications for policy analysis.

3. Universal Basic Income and dynamic assessment: this paper studies Universal Basic Income using a general equilibrium model to evaluate the long terms consequences of such a policy, since most of the positive evidence found is in local experiments, which becomes hard to do an assessment of the external validity. In the section "Related Literature" the paper discusses some of the previous findings, so it is worth reading to at least get acquainted with the facts we have so far. In the general setting, they find that the UBI increases the welfare of older agents, but for younger and future generations there are welfare losses since the younger agents are going to invest less in skills and the older generations are going to save less to transfer to the young agents. This occurs because the policy is expensive and higher taxes are needed to implement it, which reduces investment in skills. In the end, there is a reduction in the number of agents with a higher education degree at the same time savings are reduced, which will require even more taxes in the future. 

4. Rethinking the Welfare State: this paper begins by arguing that the redistribution of income via welfare programs represents around 2.3 \% of the US GDP and around 5.4 \% in France. It also documents life cycle inequalities for different types of households: married, single, skilled, and unskilled. The goal of the paper is to do the following evaluation: (i) how households value the current transfer system, (ii) replace the current transfer system with a Universal Basic Income, (iii) replace the current taxes (progressive) and transfer system with a negative income tax (Universal Basic Income plus linear tax on income). The results found are such that eliminating the current welfare system (transfers) and lowering taxes affect negatively married households with children, but in overall terms, people will be better off. When we eliminate the current welfare system (transfers) and we replace it with the Universal Basic Income for each person, the UBI does not lead to welfare gains, but the majority of the population supports this measure. When we eliminate the welfare system and replace it with a transfer for each person and replace the progressive tax system with a linear one (since there is a need to reduce distortions at the top, otherwise those agents at the top will reduce a lot of labor supply), this will be the best scenario in terms of welfare for the households. This last scenario will be the one with the highest cost for the state (around 7 \% of GDP), but it is the one that allows the largest redistribution gains via lower distortions. It is a good paper to see how a life cycle model works.

5. Universal Basic Income Debate: this is a working paper of the IMF that discusses some of the current debates in a more easy way, bringing the positive examples of field experiments and the attempts to estimate the long-term consequences of implementing such a policy. It is easy and fun to read. 